# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

Throughout [1.5 Success Criteria](../analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md), I have outlined several points relating to function and robustness. In this section, I will test these success criteria on my solution.

| Criterion | Description                                                                                  |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | The device will need to collect weather data from the environment through sensors            |
| 2         | The weather station will need to transmit all data collected to the internet to be stored    |
| 4         | The device must make predictions in weather                                                  |
| 5         | The personal weather station itself will need to be suitable for indoor/outdoor environments |
| 6         | The data collected by the weather station should be displayed on the app                     |

### Criterion 1 - Collection of weather data

This test is vital to ensuring the weather station is functional and collects accurate data from its sensors. The device must collect these readings on a regular basis without causing any errors in the system. If this test fails it could result in issues uploading and using data from the database, and displaying it on the app.

There are three main tests that I will conduct to check the function and robustness of weather data collection:

1. **The app should run without crashing or error** - This test will check that the C++ code running on the particle argon device works correctly, without reporting any errors. I will then use this to check the network connection and monitor how regularly it disconnects from the network.
2. **Data should be recieved at least once an hour while the weather station is online** - During this test, I will use the timestamp on the weather data recieved to check how regularly data readings are taken.
3. **Data collected by weather station should be correct and accurate** - In this test, I will compare the accuracy of weather readings taken by sensors attached to the argon device&#x20;

### Test Outcome



### Criterion 2 - Uploading weather data to the database

Successfully uploading data collected by the weather station to mongo database is another essential component of my project's robustness and functionality. Within this second test, I will examine how the server is able to deal with receiving data, and its ability to communicate using MQTT.

### Test Outcome



### Criterion 4 - Weather Predictions

This section will test my back-end's ability to cope under stress and make predictions for future weather conditions. The program should be able to deal with any issues with the dataset, such as missing data values, and not result in error. Additionally, the program must be robust enough to not cause errors on the user interface.

### Test Outcome



### Criterion 5 - Indoor and outdoor environments

This test will examine my weather station's ability to cope with both indoor and outdoor environments. More specifically, the weather station must be able to deal with extreme conditions while maintaining a high degree of accuracy, and run without error.

### Test Outcome



### Criterion 6 - App functionality and robustness

The final test for functionality and robustness relates to my app's ability to run without crashing, and how long it takes for weather data to load. This will ensure that the user is successfully able to make use of the user interface.

### Test Outcome
