# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Internet Connection Dependent ->** Currently, the functionality of the Weather System is limited by the Weather Station's signal strength and connection to Wifi. Without a stable connection, the device is unable to send data readings to an MQTT broker and the server cannot record data on the database. This limits the area range that the weather station can be used in.
* **Provides Data From the Localised Area Only ->** The weather system can only record data from a single  location, wherever the weather station is placed by the user. This means the user can't have different devices collecting data in different areas or comparing conditions. Additionally, all weather predictions are set to one area.
* **Accuracy and Variety of Weather Predictions ->** While the user interface displays data for minimum temperature, maximum temperature and precipitation, the accuracy of these predictions is limited. It is unable to make predictions for other conditions, including snow, wind, air pressure and humidity. As well as using limited data to make 14-day predictions, the data currently being used is from weather APIs set to the location Cirencester. This means the predictions can't be personalised using data collected by the weather station and the location cannot be changed.
* **Delays Before Retreiving Weather Data ->**The current system for storing weather data on Mongo Database can be relatively slow, especially when the weather station is placed in a location with a poor internet connection. This can result in larger intervals between readings and less frequent updates on the user interface, limiting the accuracy of weather data.
* **Accessibility ->** The user interface on the app can be run on a browser or as a react app, assuming that the user meets the basic requirements set in [1.6 Hardware and Software Requirements](../analysis/1.6-hardware-and-software-requirements.md). The screen size is responsive to smartphone and tablet screen sizes, but the design is optimal in the browser of computers. However, the range of devices the app would work on in its full capacity is limited.&#x20;

## Maintenance

The maintenance for my solution will mostly focus on the short term and long term issues for the Weather System. The main features of the system I will continue to maintain includes collection of weather data, weather predictions, and the main structure of the app. To improve the efficiency of the user interface, I would need to continue monitoring the system for errors and bugs, and implement smaller features to maximise the usability of the system.&#x20;

Long-term maintenance issues include the memory capacity of the Particle Argon for further development, improvement of weather forecasting accuracy and ensuring the system is suitable for use by the stakeholder.

#### Short-term Maintenance

The short-term maintenance area includes any errors or issues that I found during development cycles and testing, which would require minor changes to improve the overall system. These changes include using data collected by the weather station instead of conditions from an API to personalise all predictions further, improving the layout of the user interface and menu to ensure it is easily understandable and making sure all features already in the system are as effective and efficient as possible.

Additionally, adding videos and images to the user instructions page is a simple yet effective way of allowing the user to gain a greater depth of understanding about their system. The user interface experience could also be improved by reducing the network traffic every time the system is updated. These features and changes will help maintain the usability of the Weather System and make it more accessible to both experienced and inexperienced users.

#### Long-term Maintenance

While a large part of long-term maintenance involves any new features in the weather system including a larger variety of predictions, taking other data readings such as wind, adding notifications, ensuring the system continues to work correctly is also essential. As the system contains many different programs and modules, all aspects of the roles of functions of individual components must be standardised to maintain it long term. For instance, while the weather station program, database server, back-end and react app all run separately, they are all dependent on each other's function in order to work correctly. Any packages or libraries used by the system must be updated and checked for vulnerabilities, to ensure the system is optimised. Furthermore, considerations must be made for the storage and capabilities of the Particle Argon when new features are implemented.

Another aspect of long-term maintenance involves ensuring the program itself is logically structured, annotated and understandable. This is crucial in ensuring that the project is understandable despite the complex algorithms and system before other people get involved in the project.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

describe aspects that might need tweaking

* **Improving the efficiency of communication with the database** - only collecting data once per interval to reduce network traffic
* **Improving tracking and monitoring of current conditions**
* **Accessing current weather conditions**

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

describe aspects that could be developed to address the limitations identified earlier

* **Internet Connection Dependent ->**&#x20;
* **Provides Data From the Localised Area Only ->**&#x20;
* **Accuracy and Variety of Weather Predictions ->**&#x20;
* **Delays Before Retreiving Weather Data ->**&#x20;
* **Accessibility ->** Add videos and images to instructions, ensuring all code is understandable to an inexperienced user and providing customer support/consumer-friendly appearance

### Other Long Term Developments

