# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Internet Connection Dependent ->** Currently, the functionality of the Weather System is limited by the Weather Station's signal strength and connection to Wifi. Without a stable connection, the device is unable to send data readings to an MQTT broker and the server cannot record data on the database. This limits the area range that the weather station can be used in.
* **Provides Data From the Localised Area Only ->** The weather system can only record data from a single  location, wherever the weather station is placed by the user. This means the user can't have different devices collecting data in different areas or comparing conditions. Additionally, all weather predictions are set to one area.
* **Accuracy and Variety of Weather Predictions ->** While the user interface displays data for minimum temperature, maximum temperature and precipitation, the accuracy of these predictions is limited. It is unable to make predictions for other conditions, including snow, wind, air pressure and humidity. As well as using limited data to make 14-day predictions, the data currently being used is from weather APIs set to the location Cirencester. This means the predictions can't be personalised using data collected by the weather station and the location cannot be changed.
* **Delays Before Retreiving Weather Data ->**The current system for storing weather data on Mongo Database can be relatively slow, especially when the weather station is placed in a location with a poor internet connection. This can result in larger intervals between readings and less frequent updates on the user interface, limiting the accuracy of weather data.
* **Accessibility ->** The user interface on the app can be run on a browser or as a react app, assuming that the user meets the basic requirements set in [1.6 Hardware and Software Requirements](../../analysis/1.6-hardware-and-software-requirements.md). The screen size is responsive to smartphone and tablet screen sizes, but the design is optimal in the browser of computers. However, the range of devices the app would work on in its full capacity is limited.&#x20;

## Maintenance

The maintenance for my solution will mostly focus on the short term and long term issues for the Weather System. The main features of the system I will continue to maintain includes collection of weather data, weather predictions, and the main structure of the app. To improve the efficiency of the user interface, I would need to continue monitoring the system for errors and bugs, and implement smaller features to maximise the usability of the system.&#x20;

Long-term maintenance issues include the memory capacity of the Particle Argon for further development, improvement of weather forecasting accuracy and ensuring the system is suitable for use by the stakeholder.

#### Short-term Maintenance

The short-term maintenance area includes any errors or issues that I found during development cycles and testing, which would require minor changes to improve the overall system. These changes include using data collected by the weather station instead of conditions from an API to personalise all predictions further, improving the layout of the user interface and menu to ensure it is easily understandable and making sure all features already in the system are as effective and efficient as possible.

Additionally, adding videos and images to the user instructions page is a simple yet effective way of allowing the user to gain a greater depth of understanding about their system. The user interface experience could also be improved by reducing the network traffic every time the system is updated. These features and changes will help maintain the usability of the Weather System and make it more accessible to both experienced and inexperienced users.

#### Long-term Maintenance

While a large part of long-term maintenance involves any new features in the weather system including a larger variety of predictions, taking other data readings such as wind, adding notifications, ensuring the system continues to work correctly is also essential. As the system contains many different programs and modules, all aspects of the roles of functions of individual components must be standardised to maintain it long term. For instance, while the weather station program, database server, back-end and react app all run separately, they are all dependent on each other's function in order to work correctly. Any packages or libraries used by the system must be updated and checked for vulnerabilities, to ensure the system is optimised. Furthermore, considerations must be made for the storage and capabilities of the Particle Argon when new features are implemented.

Another aspect of long-term maintenance involves ensuring the program itself is logically structured, annotated and understandable. This is crucial in ensuring that the project is understandable despite the complex algorithms and system before other people get involved in the project.

## Future Development

### Short Term Issues and Bug Fixes

* **Improving the efficiency of communication with the database->** Currently, every time a component in the user interface needs to access weather data, it makes an independent request to the back-end. This worked well at the beginning of my project, when there were very few features, but as further cycles added additional stress to the system, increasing network traffic. I would improve the performance of the user interface by only making one request to the database every 30 seconds for the whole system, and then share the data between different modules and components for use. This would also reduce the number of times calls need to be made to the database.
* **Improving tracking and monitoring of current conditions ->** The main way the user can track trends in their environment is by looking at the weather history or using graphs. However, some of these graphs don't fully represent weather trends. A short term improvement for this would be an additional feature summarising daily, weekly and monthly trends for each weather condition on the user interface. This could be in the form of notifications, or a new section on the main display.
* **Collecting current weather conditions from an API ->**In [3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness](./#dealing-with-missing-data), one bug I had was the current conditions display, as sometimes the data returned from the weather API was missing a header and therefore couldn't be displayed on the user interface. This caused an error on the user interface. While I was able to adapt the system to catch this error and notify the user of the issue, an easy fix would be to prevent the error from happening in the first place. This could either be by using an additional validation program to add the missing headers or switching to a different weather API.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* **Internet Connection Dependent ->** The system could provide an alternative way of connecting to the internet, such as cellular. Additionally, I would adapt the program so that the sections of the system could work without an internet connection - for instance, the weather station could be plugged directly into the device, and the user interface would be able to function without an internet connection using previously collected data, rather than relying on a database.
* **Provides Data From the Localised Area Only ->** The weather station program could be extended to run on multiple devices, which could be placed in different conditions. The user could compare indoor and outdoor conditions, or check the weather in several different locations. The user would then be able to switch between locations on the user interface. This would allow me to develop another new feature, comparing the weather in different conditions.
* **Accuracy and Variety of Weather Predictions ->** In the long term, I would add other sensors to the system, such as measuring rainfall, wind speed and wind direction. I would use this additional data collected to make more detailed and personalised predictions for weather, including precipitation, temperature, humidity and conditions. Additionally, I would adapt the current machine learning model by providing it with more weather data, such as daily, weekly and monthly averages, and previous trends. This would increase both the accuracy and variety of weather predictions available to the user.
* **Delays Before Retreiving Weather Data ->** As the current data storage system is dependent on multiple programs, when one of these systems, such as the server, runs into an issue it delays the data transfer to the database and user interface. To improve this, I would do more detailed research into which aspect of the system is causing the delay, and check the MQTT broker is working correctly and efficiently. Additionally, I would alter the current server program to improve the speed and effectiveness of communication.
* **Accessibility ->** To improve the accessibility of the weather system to an inexperienced user, I would develop a more detailed, concise guide on the user instructions page with photos and a video tutorial, to explain what the different sensors and components of the weather station are, what the coloured lights on the Particle Argon represent and how to set it up. Another feature I would develop relating to accessibility is the ability to customise the user interface. Allowing the user to choose the data they want to compare on graphs and the frequency of weather data collection would allow the system to be adaptable to every stakeholder.
