# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is the process where unnecessary features of a problem are removed in order to visualise a solution. Abstraction is especially important when considering other weather forecasting projects. Many large-scale weather stations have a large amount of features and are highly complex. By only including the most relevant parts of the problem, it will help simplify the programming problems and improve the efficiency overall.

Aspects of my project which I will use abstraction for include:

* When forecasting, I will need to design an algorithm to predict future weather conditions. To simplify this process, I will collect and use the minimal amount of data required to simplify the program on the weather station. This will also reduce the complexity of the weather prediction program. Implementing weather APIs and libraries will reduce the complexity of this problem further.
* The software used to obtain readings from sensors can be abstracted by using libraries. I will only need the weather station to transmit data to the internet, not receive data from it, which will simplify the program and improve overall efficiency.
* When designing a graphical user interface for my weather station, I will only include features needed by the stakeholder. This includes monitoring and forecasting data. By not including unnecessary features such as radar maps, weather warnings and a complex design, I will reduce the programming required to build this app.

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead is vital to the future development of my project. This will involve considering the details required to complete my project, which is especially important when considering the combination of hardware and software in a personal weather station. Thinking ahead will allow me to visualise my final product, and the processes required to complete it.

For instance, the first aspect of my solution will be using sensors to collect data from the environment. This will require sensors, a development board connected to the internet, and design a program to collect and upload the data itself. I will then need to store this data on a database, which can be accessed by my application. The next step is to design a program to monitor and forecast weather conditions. Finally, I will need to design a graphical user interface to present this data. This would be in the form of a web-based or smartphone application.

Part of thinking ahead is considering how my initial decisions could impact the outcome of this project. For example, if I used a Particle IoT device to collect data, I would need to use the language C++ in order to program the weather station. Meanwhile, a Raspberry Pi supports C,C++ and python. Furthermore, my choice of sensors and data to collect will determine what I am able to display on the accompanying app later in the project. By considering the different stages of my project, I can ensure I keep up to date with all tasks and complete my project by the deadline.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is the process of breaking down my project into a series of smaller sub-problems, so that each task can be solved individually. This will help me think procedurally about the problem, completing each task individually in a structured order. Previously, I have outlined the different steps required to complete this project. I have decomposed the problem further as shown below.

* The main problem in my project is forecasting, which can be broken down into collection of weather data, processing, and displaying conditions. These three areas can then be decomposed further.
* Collection of data can be broken down into its software and hardware related problems. To collect the data, I will need to use a variety of sensors, and a development board. The weather station will need to collect data at regular intervals, and then transmit data to the internet. Therefore, I will also need to design a program to control the operations of the weather station.
* The second aspect of this solution, processing data, can also be decomposed further. Data will need to be saved to a database so that it can be accessed by the app. As well as recording past trends, one of the key features of my problem will be making weather predictions. Therefore, I will need to design a prediction algorithm.
* While collection and processing of weather data is a large aspect of my problem, the way I display this data would be very important to a stakeholder. This will likely be in the form of a web-based or smartphone application, and will have a clear and concise format. This can then be broken down into the design of the user interface, a panel to display current conditions, and predictions.
* An additional level of decomposition to monitoring weather is notifications. The program will need to notice sudden changes in weather, and trigger a notification to be sent on the app.

## Thinking Logically

Locgical thinking is vital in ensuring that the process of designing a problem is as efficient as possible. This involves having a clear idea of the steps required to produce a valid solution and making it easily understandable for others. Implementing logical thinking into all aspects of my solution is vital in ensuring components work together correctly.

* The weather forecasting program will need to be as short and efficient as possible.
* All code will need to include comments so that it can easily be debugged or picked up by another programmer.
* As mentioned previously, all data collected will need to be stored, for example, in an online database.
* The graphical user interface will need to clearly show trends in weather, current conditions and forecasts. To make it as desirable to a stakeholder as possible, all information must be clearly presented, e.g. using graphs and tables.

## Thinking Concurrently
