# 1.6 Hardware and Software Requirements

## Development Requirements

Development requirements are the hardware and software components required to design and run a program. Within my own project, these will be hardware components that facilitate the program to monitor weather conditions and the device that the app will run on. I will use the IDE Visual Studio Code to develop and write my program and node.js as a runtime. Additionally, I need to use a web browser to test the application.

| Software           | Hardware Required                                                                          |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Visual Studio Code | <ul><li>1.6 GHz Processor</li><li>1 GB of RAM</li><li>Disk Space of 200 MB</li></ul>       |
| Node.js            | <ul><li>4 vCPU Processor</li><li>2 GB of RAM</li><li>Disk Space of 25 GB</li></ul>         |
| React.js           | <ul><li>Intel Core 2 Quad Q9705 CPU</li><li>4 GB RAM</li><li>Disk space of 10 GB</li></ul> |

[(visualstudio.com, 2023)](../evaluation/reference-list.md), [(help.cloud66.com, 2021)](../evaluation/reference-list.md), [(upgrad.com, 2023)](../evaluation/reference-list.md)

I decided to use Visual Studio Code as it provided a program development environment, which will allow me to compile and debug all code I write, and support multiple languages, including C++, Javascript, Python, CSS and HTML. This will allow me to develop all the aspects of my weather system, including the weather station, the back-end, and the front-end.

Additionally, I have decided to use Node for the back-end and react for the front-end of the app. Using React will allow me to reuse components, improving the efficiency of the program, and making it more reactive. Meanwhile, the node back-end can be used to make weather predictions, monitor weather conditions and connect to the database.

## Other Hardware Requirements

In this section, I will explore the hardware requirements of the personal weather station in order to design and produce a program. This will not include the physical components of the weather station itself, such as sensors.

As mentioned previously in [1.4a](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md), a development board will be needed to run the program. When choosing a development board, it will need to have a large enough storage capacity to run the data collection program, and access to the internet so that weather conditions can be monitored wirelessly.

I have decided to use the Particle Argon as a development board for this project as it can be used to build the weather station. The device can connect wirelessly to the internet over WIFI, meaning the weather station would function from multiple locations. The device requires the program to be written using C++, which I must consider in the development requirements of my project. When programming with Particle, I can use Visual Studio Code or the development machine Particle Workbench to develop my code. While other devices such as the Raspberry Pi/SenseHat have in-built sensors, the particle Argon will allow me to customise the sensors I use and design the weather station myself.&#x20;

## User Requirements

Another aspect of my solution is the graphical user interface. This will be in the format of an app, which is easily accessible from any location. For the app to be easily accessed by a stakeholder, it will need to be available from their handheld device or PC. Therefore, the user will need to have an electronic device such as a smartphone or laptop and access to the internet for wireless weather monitoring. The research on the activity of common stakeholders in 1.2 showed that around 85% of the global population own a phone, making the system accessible to a large proportion of people. According to [StatCounter Global Stats (2023)](../evaluation/reference-list.md), the most popular web browsers are chrome (50.17%), safari (32.56%) and edge (8.37%). Therefore, the app must be able to function correctly on these browsers. Below I have outlined the user requirements for these popular web browsers.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Chrome" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>Windows 10 or later</li><li>An Intel Pentium 4 processor or later that is SSE3 capable</li></ul>                                                    |
| Mac      | <ul><li>macOS High Sierra 10.13 or later</li></ul>                                                                                                          |
| Linux    | <ul><li>64-bit Ubuntu 18.04+, Debian 10+, open SUSE 15.2+, or Fedora Linux 32+</li><li>An Intel Pentium 4 processor or later that is SSE3 capable</li></ul> |
| Android  | <ul><li>Android 7.0 Nougat</li></ul>                                                                                                                        |
| Mobile   | <ul><li>IOS 12 and above</li></ul>                                                                                                                          |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Safari" %}
<table><thead><tr><th>Platform</th><th>Requirements</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Mac</td><td><ul><li>Tiger 10.4.9 or later</li><li>256MB of memory</li><li>Intel-based processor</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Windows</td><td><ul><li>WindowsXP or Windows Vista</li><li>256MB of memory</li><li>500MHz Intel Pentium processor</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Mobile</td><td><ul><li>Iphone 6 or above</li><li>IOS 9 or higher</li><li>Not available on android</li></ul></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Microsoft Edge" %}
<table><thead><tr><th>Platform</th><th>Requirements</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Windows</td><td><ul><li>Windows 10 SAC 1709 and later</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Mac</td><td><ul><li>High Sierra (10.13) or later</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Android</td><td><ul><li>Android KitKat 4.4 or later</li><li>ARM-based processor.</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Mobile</td><td><ul><li>Requires IOS 14.0 or later</li></ul></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Firefox" %}
<table><thead><tr><th>Platform</th><th>Requirements</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Windows</td><td><ul><li>Windows XP SP2, Windows VIsta, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2003</li><li>Pentium 4 or higher processor with SSE2 support</li><li>512MB of RAM</li><li>200MB of available hard drive space</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Mac</td><td><ul><li>OS X 10.6 or 10.7</li><li>Intel X86 processor</li><li>512MB of RAM</li><li>200MB of available hard drive space</li></ul></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Linux</td><td><ul><li>GTK+ 2.10 or higher, GLib 2.12 or higher, Pango 1.14 or higher, X.org 1.0 or higher, libstdc++ 4.3 or higher</li></ul></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

[(Google.com, 2023)](../evaluation/reference-list.md), [(Apple Newsroom, 2007)](../evaluation/reference-list.md),[ (learn.microsoft.com, 2023)](../evaluation/reference-list.md), [(Phillips, 2023)](../evaluation/reference-list.md)
